---
layout: post
title: "Big data"
date: 2015-04-16 17:22:40 +0200
categories: ["Academic English"]
tags: [Journal]
---

Journal For Class: English Learning Skills in Academic Contexts

<!--more-->

Nowadays, big data is a very hot concept. It seems that the big data era is coming. All companies are paying much attention to big data, and everyone is talking about it. However, I think it is quite an irrational phenomenon — big data is just a solution to a problem, but it will never be the solution to *all* problems.

So I'd like to talk about big data from my major's perspective. What is big data? Wikipedia tells us that big data is a broad term for data sets so large or complex that traditional data processing applications are inadequate. So the point is that the traditional way is not proper for new problems. However, the concept has been clearly abused. For example, a dating site said high-income groups have a greater chance of dating success based on big data. I think this is a ridiculous conclusion as it is an obvious fact. Even if we need proof, some statistical sampling is enough — big data analysis is a waste of computing resources.

Big data should be used carefully and accurately. *Google's Flu Trends* and *Walmart's beer and diapers* are two classical cases. Both find facts that are difficult to notice by other means. That is the real power of big data.

Now I am studying the relevant tools often used in big data analysis. I hope I can become a data scientist one day. My ideal is to create an artificial brain with the ability of independent thinking. Big data can be used to train such a brain. Then it can accept all kinds of inputs and give different outputs under different circumstances. For example, when a consumer logs on to an e-commerce website, the brain can intelligently analyze what the consumer will buy at that time.

These are some of my ideas about big data. I am sure big data can make our lives more intelligent and convenient.
